# System Theory (ST) or General System Theory (GST)

## Economics
* The economy works as a voting system for literally anything. Voting systems usually works well when individuals does not have contact with each other and can't influence each other's opinions (imagine rating YouTube videos or amazon products ratings). Although, in real life people DO influence each other's evaluation of the real price of a thing, this effect is more and less canceled out when we take the system as a whole, thus we arrive at usually "fair price" (not perfect due to the fact that people influence each other but quite fair).

*  People and legislators are more and more demanding benefits without considering the financials consequences of those demands (absence of resources or money to support those ideas). Sucessful politics to deal with this problem must make people "feel" the consequences of spending more and more money and allow them to choose consciously their priorities. We can think of in terms of the four ways people spend money (Milton Friedman). Otherwise, people will keep spending money until it is too late.

## Politics
* People have `agency` (i.e. the ability to make free choices). However, if a population are exposed to a restricted pool of choices for a long period of time, different people will make the same choices; they will share and influence each other's choices and over time will create a culture to justify and reinforce said choices. Thus, creating a repeatable and predictable pattern. So it is not `idealism` neither `materialism` that governs humans but both acting at the same time at different levels and functions and stages [source 1](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sgOo-bS7OJI), [source 2](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sgOo-bS7OJI).

* `Dominance` and `Hierarchy` happends via privilage `bargain powers` among individuos of a group and lack of equality counter ballance present in the system.

## Psychology
* The idea of `self` is constantly changing and molding depending on who we are speaking to (i.e.  evolving through social interactions and the ongoing construction of our identity) (Book: **Selfless: The Social Creation of “You”**) [source 1](https://bigthink.com/thinking/selfless-book/), [source 2](https://www.amazon.com.br/Selfless-Social-Creation-You-English-ebook).

* There is no `consciousness`. The phenomenon of consciousness emerges from our current perception of self and our perception of `continuality` through space and time. However, we do not observe our change of mind or attitude that are constantly being shaped through our social interactions and external events that leave long lasting memories on us. Thus, we are much like the `ship of theseus`, being rebuild and molded daily or hourly and although we think we are the same, we are indeed not. If you could go back in time and meet yourself from the past, you would not recognize yourself and neither your old-you would recognize you. Therefore, you are also a system and what constitute you is the sum of your interactions (with others and the world).

* Our brain is like a cup. Knowledge is pour into this cup until is full. Anything beyond that will overflow and escape. That's the maximum amount information people can `process` and `operate`. We can increase the size of our cup by learning and training. Some people have a big cup other people have a small cup. People with big cup will have difficulty to communicate with people with small cup because they will not be understood to its full content and potential. People work with what they got. They don't know what they don't know and they always assume (and must assume as a matter of life and dead) they know everything that needs to know. The act of humbleness is a conscious one. You must always look into oneself and say "I don't know everything". Unconsciously we don't do that. This way, when someone with a big cup talks to someone with a small cup, the person with small cup will not understand everything but they will assume they know everything of what you said. That will always cause problems.

* Just because you have a brain does not make you a being capable of thinking the same way that just because I have arms or legs, it makes me a runner or swimmer. The same way you have to practice running or swimming every day for maybe one day be called a runner or swimmer, you must study and practice every day to be a being capable of thinking.
